# diwali on the styx
The inundation of an AI-empowered surveillance capitalism is depicted in the flow of the River Styx, a greek mythological symbol of collective human experience. Derived from a Quillez domain warping technique, the hydrology is mediated by a metallic pollution on the surface, but ultimately gives way to an illuminated undertow.
This piece was created during Diwali, a festival of lights that includes floating lamps on waterways. These lights represent knowledge and wisdom that pushes back against the darkness of fear and ignorance. As Tagore foresaw the scarring of human consciousness due to colonization, I fear the effects of disinformation and behavior modification due to a Silicon Valley hegemony. Here, I express this fear through the inexorable torrent of blue. However, no matter how suffocating this polluted river appears, the undercurrent luminescence never expires, and always surfaces in brilliant pockets of resistance. 
## next steps
First, I’d address performance and accessibility. Currently, it renders best on Firefox with a strong graphics card; it should work on all major browsers and phones. I also identified a way to modify the Quillez algorithms for performance at the expense of perfect fractal brownian motion fidelity, a sleight of hand that may help me run this on older devices.
The second is to add a key accent to the piece. It is my wish to add a diegetic source of aesthetic modification to the piece. With the theme of Diwali, I’d add lamps on the river or a generative oak tree, a symbol of Silicon Valley.
The third endeavor is to share the techniques with my communities.  As an educator, I teach workshops at a makerspace at USC, and my series on generative art with p5 is among my most popular. However, the curriculum terminates with Perlin noise techniques for computational form, and I would like to add fractal brownian motion as the next step. The creative code collective, based out of USC MA+P recently turned to WebGL for infovis and generative art. At Corpus Callosum, a student-run organization of engineers, students are trying to port their formal computer science graphics knowledge to WebXR, as this would allow remote VR development. For both of these communities, creating a book that shows this piece’s iterative development, variations, and computational form components could add to our institutional knowledge.
